{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2870
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 Times-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue233;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c93333;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa321\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Summary\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 This dataset (ml-latest-small) describes 5-star rating and free-text tagging activity from\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://movielens.org/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 MovieLens}}, a movie recommendation service. It contains 100836 ratings and 3683 tag applications across 9742 movies. These data were created by 610 users between March 29, 1996 and September 24, 2018. This dataset was generated on September 26, 2018.\
Users were selected at random for inclusion. All selected users had rated at least 20 movies. No demographic information is included. Each user is represented by an id, and no other information is provided.\
The data are contained in the files\'a0
\f2\fs26 links.csv
\f1\fs24 ,\'a0
\f2\fs26 movies.csv
\f1\fs24 ,\'a0
\f2\fs26 ratings.csv
\f1\fs24 \'a0and\'a0
\f2\fs26 tags.csv
\f1\fs24 . More details about the contents and use of all these files follows.\
This is a\'a0
\f3\i development
\f1\i0 \'a0dataset. As such, it may change over time and is not an appropriate dataset for shared research results. See available\'a0
\f3\i benchmark
\f1\i0 \'a0datasets if that is your intent.\
This and other GroupLens data sets are publicly available for download at\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://grouplens.org/datasets/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 http://grouplens.org/datasets/}}.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa321\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 Usage License\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 Neither the University of Minnesota nor any of the researchers involved can guarantee the correctness of the data, its suitability for any particular purpose, or the validity of results based on the use of the data set. The data set may be used for any research purposes under the following conditions:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The user may not state or imply any endorsement from the University of Minnesota or the GroupLens Research Group.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The user must acknowledge the use of the data set in publications resulting from the use of the data set (see below for citation information).\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The user may redistribute the data set, including transformations, so long as it is distributed under these same license conditions.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The user may not use this information for any commercial or revenue-bearing purposes without first obtaining permission from a faculty member of the GroupLens Research Project at the University of Minnesota.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The executable software scripts are provided "as is" without warranty of any kind, either expressed or implied, including, but not limited to, the implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose. The entire risk as to the quality and performance of them is with you. Should the program prove defective, you assume the cost of all necessary servicing, repair or correction.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 In no event shall the University of Minnesota, its affiliates or employees be liable to you for any damages arising out of the use or inability to use these programs (including but not limited to loss of data or data being rendered inaccurate).\
If you have any further questions or comments, please email\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:grouplens-info@umn.edu"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 grouplens-info@umn.edu}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa321\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 Citation\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 To acknowledge use of the dataset in publications, please cite the following paper:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 F. Maxwell Harper and Joseph A. Konstan. 2015. The MovieLens Datasets: History and Context. ACM Transactions on Interactive Intelligent Systems (TiiS) 5, 4: 19:1\'9619:19.\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://doi.org/10.1145/2827872"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 https://doi.org/10.1145/2827872}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa321\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 Further Information About GroupLens\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 GroupLens is a research group in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at the University of Minnesota. Since its inception in 1992, GroupLens's research projects have explored a variety of fields including:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 recommender systems\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 online communities\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 mobile and ubiquitious technologies\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 digital libraries\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 local geographic information systems\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 GroupLens Research operates a movie recommender based on collaborative filtering, MovieLens, which is the source of these data. We encourage you to visit\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://movielens.org/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 http://movielens.org}}\'a0to try it out! If you have exciting ideas for experimental work to conduct on MovieLens, send us an email at\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:grouplens-info@cs.umn.edu"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 grouplens-info@cs.umn.edu}}\'a0- we are always interested in working with external collaborators.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa321\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 Content and Use of Files\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\fs36 \cf0 Formatting and Encoding\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 The dataset files are written as\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comma-separated_values"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 comma-separated values}}\'a0files with a single header row. Columns that contain commas (
\f2\fs26 ,
\f1\fs24 ) are escaped using double-quotes (
\f2\fs26 "
\f1\fs24 ). These files are encoded as UTF-8. If accented characters in movie titles or tag values (e.g. Mis\'e9rables, Les (1995)) display incorrectly, make sure that any program reading the data, such as a text editor, terminal, or script, is configured for UTF-8.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 User Ids\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 MovieLens users were selected at random for inclusion. Their ids have been anonymized. User ids are consistent between\'a0
\f2\fs26 ratings.csv
\f1\fs24 \'a0and\'a0
\f2\fs26 tags.csv
\f1\fs24 \'a0(i.e., the same id refers to the same user across the two files).\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 Movie Ids\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 Only movies with at least one rating or tag are included in the dataset. These movie ids are consistent with those used on the MovieLens web site (e.g., id\'a0
\f2\fs26 1
\f1\fs24 \'a0corresponds to the URL\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://movielens.org/movies/1"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 https://movielens.org/movies/1}}). Movie ids are consistent between\'a0
\f2\fs26 ratings.csv
\f1\fs24 ,\'a0
\f2\fs26 tags.csv
\f1\fs24 ,\'a0
\f2\fs26 movies.csv
\f1\fs24 , and\'a0
\f2\fs26 links.csv
\f1\fs24 \'a0(i.e., the same id refers to the same movie across these four data files).\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 Ratings Data File Structure (ratings.csv)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 All ratings are contained in the file\'a0
\f2\fs26 ratings.csv
\f1\fs24 . Each line of this file after the header row represents one rating of one movie by one user, and has the following format:\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs26 \cf0 userId,movieId,rating,timestamp\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 The lines within this file are ordered first by userId, then, within user, by movieId.\
Ratings are made on a 5-star scale, with half-star increments (0.5 stars - 5.0 stars).\
Timestamps represent seconds since midnight Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) of January 1, 1970.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 Tags Data File Structure (tags.csv)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 All tags are contained in the file\'a0
\f2\fs26 tags.csv
\f1\fs24 . Each line of this file after the header row represents one tag applied to one movie by one user, and has the following format:\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs26 \cf0 userId,movieId,tag,timestamp\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 The lines within this file are ordered first by userId, then, within user, by movieId.\
Tags are user-generated metadata about movies. Each tag is typically a single word or short phrase. The meaning, value, and purpose of a particular tag is determined by each user.\
Timestamps represent seconds since midnight Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) of January 1, 1970.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 Movies Data File Structure (movies.csv)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 Movie information is contained in the file\'a0
\f2\fs26 movies.csv
\f1\fs24 . Each line of this file after the header row represents one movie, and has the following format:\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs26 \cf0 movieId,title,genres\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 Movie titles are entered manually or imported from\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.themoviedb.org/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 https://www.themoviedb.org/}}, and include the year of release in parentheses. Errors and inconsistencies may exist in these titles.\
Genres are a pipe-separated list, and are selected from the following:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Action\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Adventure\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Animation\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Children's\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Comedy\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Crime\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Documentary\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Drama\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Fantasy\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Film-Noir\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Horror\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Musical\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Mystery\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Romance\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Sci-Fi\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Thriller\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 War\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Western\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 (no genres listed)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 Links Data File Structure (links.csv)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 Identifiers that can be used to link to other sources of movie data are contained in the file\'a0
\f2\fs26 links.csv
\f1\fs24 . Each line of this file after the header row represents one movie, and has the following format:\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs26 \cf0 movieId,imdbId,tmdbId\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 movieId is an identifier for movies used by\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://movielens.org/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 https://movielens.org}}. E.g., the movie Toy Story has the link\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://movielens.org/movies/1"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 https://movielens.org/movies/1}}.\
imdbId is an identifier for movies used by\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.imdb.com/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 http://www.imdb.com}}. E.g., the movie Toy Story has the link\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0114709/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0114709/}}.\
tmdbId is an identifier for movies used by\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.themoviedb.org/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 https://www.themoviedb.org}}. E.g., the movie Toy Story has the link\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.themoviedb.org/movie/862"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 https://www.themoviedb.org/movie/862}}.\
Use of the resources listed above is subject to the terms of each provider.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 Cross-Validation\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 Prior versions of the MovieLens dataset included either pre-computed cross-folds or scripts to perform this computation. We no longer bundle either of these features with the dataset, since most modern toolkits provide this as a built-in feature. If you wish to learn about standard approaches to cross-fold computation in the context of recommender systems evaluation, see\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://lenskit.org/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 LensKit}}\'a0for tools, documentation, and open-source code examples.\
}